:orphan: True

One way to brew mead
====================

The following brewing procedure has been developed by the author over
the past five or ten years, and this software has been developed to
support this procedure.  It is most certainly not the only way -- nor
the best way -- but it is one way to make mead that has consistently
resulted in some delicious product which has earned a number of
ribbons in local competitions to boot.

.. warning:: This is most emphatically not the only way to brew mead.
             Your mileage may vary.  The software should be
             sufficiently flexible to support other methods.  If it's
             not, please consider filing a :doc:`feature request
             <bugfeature>` with as much detail as possible.

Brewing
-------

Each batch requires approximately ten pounds of honey, five gallons of
water, one packet of yeast, and (optionally) other ingredients for
flavor.

Sanitize the following: a food-grade bucket (and lid) with a capacity
of at least 6.5 gallons, an airlock, a wine thief, and a paddle.  Pour
the honey into the bucket.  Heat half the volume of water to 140
degrees Fahrenheit, then pour it into the bucket.  Stir with the
paddle until the honey and water reach a uniform consistency and
temperature.  Add the remainder of the water at room temperature to
the bucket, and stir again until a uniform temperature and consistency
are reached.  The optional ingredients can be added at this point.
Use the wine thief to take a sample of the wort, and record
observations: at a minimum, the temperature and specific gravity, but
also any sensory characteristics.  Prepare the yeast in accordance
with its instructions and pitch it into the bucket.  Seal the bucket
and put an airlock in the bucket lid.  Place the bucket in a dark,
temperature-controlled space and wait.

Racking
-------

After sufficient time has passed (anywhere from three weeks to three
months, depending on the ingredients and conditions), the airlock will
stop bubbling, and it will be time to rack the mead.

Sanitize the following: a glass carboy (and stopper or other closure)
with a capacity of at least 6.5 gallons, an airlock, a wine thief, and
a racking cane with hose.  Use the wine thief to take another sample,
and record observations (both chemistry and sensory), before racking
the mead from the bucket into the carboy.  Be careful to leave as much
of the lees behind as possible without wasting mead.  Seal the carboy
with the appropriate closure and install an airlock.  Place the carboy
in a dark, temperature-controlled space and wait.

Bottling
--------

After even more time has passed (again, anywhere from three weeks to
three months, depending on the ingredients and conditions), it will be
time to rack the mead.  This duration does not have a convenient end
point so some judgment and/or guesswork is required.

Sanitize the following: two dozen Mason jars (including lids), a wine
thief and a racking cane with hose and a bottling tip.  Use the wine
thief to take a final sample, and record observations (again, both
chemistry and sensory).  Use the racking cane assembly to fill each
Mason jar, keeping each jar in the order it was filled.  Print labels
for the batch and apply them to the jars in sequence, then store the
jars in crates.  Place the crates in a dark, temperature-controlled
space.
